In this lecture I want to show you
a couple of different things involving modules.
And I want to start by basically proving to you
that Node does in fact wrap the code in our modules
into a wrapper function,
like I showed you in the last lecture.
So let's create a new file again, module.js,
and that's modules, like this.
Okay, and what I'm gonna do here
is to log to the console the arguments, okay?
So arguments is an array in JavaScript,
and this array contains all the values
that were passed into a function.
So when I log this arguments array to the console,
if we actually see some values there, well,
then it means that we're really in a function, okay?
So let's run modules.
And indeed, here we have the code in our arguments.
And so let's remember the five arguments
of the wrapper function.
The first one is the export, so this one,
which is currently empty
because we're not exporting anything.
The second one is the require function,
so we can see that here,
we have the require function indeed.
Then the third one is called module, okay.
And in module we have then module exports,
which again we talked about in the last lecture.
And what do we have here is not that important, again,
I just wanted to show you
that we're actually in a function right now,
so that all this code that we have in this module
is indeed wrapped into this wrapper function, okay?
Then number three and number four are the filename
and the directory name.
And indeed, this is the name of the module
that we're currently in, so modules.js.
And then here we have the directory name.
So I'm on my desktop,
and then in this now Node works folder.
So similar to this one here,
but then this one has slash the module name, okay?
So that proves us that, indeed,
all the code inside a module is wrapped,
and that we have access to all these variables,
so these arguments, okay?
So I just find this an interesting experiment
that we can do.
And we can actually do another cool thing.
So to actually show you the wrapper function,
we can require the module module, okay.
So there's a module called module,
which we actually never used but internally Node uses it.
And in there we have the wrapper.
And so that is actually this property
is actually the wrapper function.
So we can now take a look at that.
And where is that, ah, yeah.
So here, here it is actually.
So this is the wrapper function.
And so indeed you see export, require,
module, filename and directory name,
and then the function body.
And so this is what Node internally use,
so basically this template here, it uses it,
and then fills up the body of this function with our code.
Okay, so again, just an interesting experiment here.
Now the most important thing that I wanna show you here
is how we can export and import data
from one module into the other.
And so let's start by creating a new module here,
in which I'm gonna create a calculator,
a bit like I mentioned in the last video.
So let's just call this test-module-1,
because we're gonna have a couple of them.
And here I'm gonna create a calculator class.
So again, this is the ES6 syntax
of writing classes in JavaScript.
So let's add a couple of methods here, so add a and b,
will of course return a plus b,
so very simple stuff, multiply a, b,
will return a times b, and then just,
let's just do divide as well,
just for the sake of completeness here, a, b, like this.
Give it a save, it nicely formats it,
and now we can do module.exports,
just like we learned in the last video,
and we're exporting our calculator, okay?
So again, we use module.exports
when we want to export one single value.
And in this case our single value here
is the calculator class.
So module.exports is exactly what is returned
from one module, so whatever we put there, well,
then gets exported automatically, right?
We can then save the exported value
to a variable when importing it, so let's do that now.
And now here we can actually give it any name that we want.
So the name that we are exporting on the other side,
so in this other module, doesn't matter.
We can call it anything we want here.
So in that sense it's just like a normal function return,
right, so we can always return any variable,
but then call it something else
when we basically save the result of a function
to a variable, right?
So since it's our own module,
we have to use the dot slash, so what I did just here,
and then test-module-1.
And the JS, remember, we can just drop that,
it's not necessary, okay?
And so this C variable here, which is uppercase
because for class we usually always use uppercase names.
And remember, we are actually exporting a class here.
Okay, so we can now use that class to do some calculations.
So first of all let's create a new calculator,
calculator one, because later on
we're gonna have another one, okay?
And so now we create a new instance
of a calculator like this,
and this should be nothing new for you at this point.
And then let's log through console
the result of actually using this.
So calc1.add, and let's say two and five.
Give it a save, and actually let's comment out these two.
Save it again, and then Node modules,
and here we have the result, seven.
So that's two plus five, so it works, right?
And here in our test module,
we could actually do it in a more elegant way.
So we could assign this class here directly
to module.exports, right?
So right now we have a class declaration,
so that's a little bit like a function declaration,
where we say function calculator, and then this,
and here we say class, okay?
But we could do it with a class expression as well.
And so like this we simply don't use
the calculator name anyway.
So copy it, comment it out.
Okay, so just like this.
So we just say that this is a class,
and then assign it to a variable.
And so that's now an expression.
So let's run this again,
and we see of course our seven again, okay?
So again, this is just to actually immediately assign
the value that we want to module.exports,
and that's gonna save us then some lines of code,
and probably make our code look a bit better.
Okay, so that's how we export stuff with module.exports,
and now let's see how and when we can use
the exports shorthand that I also mentioned
in the previous video.
So let's just create a simple comment here, module.exports.
Then here just exports.
So a new module test, and again, module-2.js.
And so the alternative for doing module.exports
is to add properties to the exports object itself.
So we could do it like this,
and using again the calculator example from before,
we could do it like this.
So we can simply add properties to the exports object.
So a and b will return a plus b,
exports.multiply a, b will return a times b,
and now let's just duplicate
just for the sake of completeness again, and okay.
So we created basically three anonymous functions here,
these three, and assigned them
to three properties of exports.
And so now when we export this module on the other side,
so in modules.js, we will get basically access
to this exports object.
So let me show that to you.
So let's say const calc2 is require.
Again, don't forget the dot and slash,
because it is our own module.
Okay, and so now this calc2 here is the exports object.
Okay, so let me show that to you.
Console.log, calc2.add, two and five.
So that should give us the exact same result as before.
And indeed, here is our seven, just like before.
And if we did multiply,
well then that should be of course 10.
And so yeah, we have seven here from the addition here,
and then this multiply gives us 10.
So I hope that this really makes a difference
between module.exports and exports clear.
And so again, when we're using simply exports,
we can add stuff to this object, so basically properties,
and then when we import that,
so when we require this module,
the result that we're gonna get
is an object containing all these properties.
And since we're getting an object,
we can use the power of ES6 destructuring
to do some cool magic here, basically.
So let me get rid of this one, or actually duplicate it,
comment out this one, and so we can use destructuring
to destructure the object that we get, okay?
And it works like this, so we use the curly braces,
and then we simply create variable names
for the properties in that object.
So again, let's use add, multiply and divide.
So that are the names that we actually have
on this exports object.
So add, multiply and divide,
and these actually have to be the exact same name
as in the original object, okay?
Now the thing that this will do
is that basically it will create a variable
called simply multiply.
And so indeed, here is our result.
And we can actually only import the ones that we want.
So let's say we only want add and multiply, okay?
And so we will only get access to these two,
instead of importing everything from the module.
And this is quite a common pattern
that you will see used in Node,
and we will do that throughout the project as well.
Okay, so in this video we talked
about the wrapper function here,
then we talked about exporting and importing
using module.exports and the exports shorthand.
And now finally, just to finish,
let's talk about caching very quickly.
Okay, so let's create test-module-3 here.
And what I'm gonna do here is to create a console.log,
so basically some top-level code inside this module.
Hello from the module, okay,
and then I also want to export a function.
Just one single function, and so I'm saying module.exports
equals function without any arguments,
one that will simply log to the console:
log this beautiful text.
Just some small emoji here to make it pop a little bit.
Okay, so let's now require this test module.
Test-module-3, and I'm not saving it to any variable.
Instead I'm going to call the function right away
without saving it to a variable.
So we could of course do that,
then we would have the function in a variable,
and we could then call it.
But this is the exact same thing,
because this will return this function that we defined,
so this one here, right?
It will return this because we are using module.exports,
and then right away we call this function here, okay?
And so actually let's do that three time.
And keeping in mind that we have caching in Node.js modules,
what do you think will happen when we run this code?
Okay, so let's run this and see what's gonna happen.
Here we have the result, hello from the module,
and then three times log this beautiful text.
So we have this logging here three times, well,
because we called the same function three times.
But we have hello from the module only once, okay?
And that is because of caching.
So technically this module was only loaded once,
and so the code inside of it was also executed once only.
And so that's why this line of code here,
this logging was only run once, okay?
And so these other two loggings here, well,
they came from cache, so they were stored somewhere
in the Node's processes cache.
And once we called the function here for the second time,
it was simply retrieved from there,
instead of loading the module again, okay?
So I'm sure that makes a lot of sense to you.
And so that was our lecture, actually.
If you have any questions, you can of course, as always,
post them to the Q&A and you will get help there.
So that finishes this entire section.
I know it was quite of a ride until we got to this point,
so a lot of stuff to take in.
And if you did correct everything 100%,
don't worry all too much about it,
because throughout the course,
most of the stuff will become clear eventually, okay?
So don't worry, just keep moving on in the course,
and I'll see you in the next section.